In this lesson we will learn how to create a bulleted list.
But more importantly we will learn how to nest HTL elements inside one another.
Here we are in a text editor and let's imagine that we would like to create a web page with the heading
that reads my grocery list and then a bulleted list below that.
So we'll begin by creating the header that says My grocery list here is what that would look like.
And a web browser.
And now let's add the actual boarded list in HVM mail.
There is an element named unordered list.
The code for this is UL.
However unlike heading elements and paragraph elements we cannot simply type directly in this element
.
So for example we cannot type milk eggs bread.
This is not valid HMO code.
Instead we want to create an element for each list item.
So the code for a list item is a lie list item milk list item eggs list item bread.
So if I save and refresh in my web browser you can see we now have a bulleted list.
This marks the first time in the course that we have seen one element nest inside another.
This is a big moment because nesting elements is in the central part of writing clean well-structured
semantic HVM mail.
If you recall in an earlier lesson I mentioned that creating HDMI elements was like making sandwiches
.
We have a start tag which is a piece of bread.
We have the content which is the meat or the peanut butter and jelly.
And then we have a closing tag which is another piece of bread.
But once we start thinking about the entire page our entire document I think it's helpful to think of
Russians stacking dolls.
The dolls were one doll fits inside another and fits inside another which fits inside another.
So on and so forth in HMO one element can stack inside another to create well-structured code.
For example we know that list items nest inside an unordered list but we can also include a secondary
list inside one of these list items.
That was a lot of words to throw around.
Let's see it in action.
So for example what if we wanted to buy different kinds of bread at the store.
Inside this one list item bread we can create a secondary unordered list and then within this UL element
we can create a list items.
So it's in the min raise inbread new list item sourdough bread new list item whole wheat bread.
Now if we save and then head over to the browser and refresh we can see that the structure of our HMO
code has been put into action.
We have a sublist indented from Bread.
Let's think back to the Russians stacking doll analogy for a moment.
And as a quick exercise let's follow the ancestry of sourdough bread.
So in our code we can see that sourdough bread is a list item which fits inside this unordered list
element this unordered list has a direct Paran of this list item for bread that list item has a direct
parent of the main unordered list element.
Now on the surface you may be thinking great.
All we did in this lesson is learn how to make a bulleted list but it's so much more than that by wrapping
your mind around this idea of stacking elements inside one another by wrapping your mind around this
concept of ancestry of Paran elements and child elements.
You're opening the door to all of HVM.
As we begin to write more and more complex female code in this course everything will revert back to
this lesson.
This idea of nesting.
So it's important that you understand this early on in our next lesson.
We'll take a look at nesting once again only instead of focusing on bolded lists.
We'll look at HMO pages from a bird's eye view.
I'll see you in the next lesson.